docs/learn/projects/movingBall.md, before:

---
title: Moving ball
description: You'll explore more with some advanced projects.
---

# Moving ball


In this project, you will move your board to move the ball displayed on the LCD. When you tilt your board to any direction, the ball moves with it. 

<img
  src={require('./img/movingBall.png').default}
  alt="Moving ball project" width="480"
/>

## Circuit

The modules for this project are the accelerometer (I2C0) and the LCD (SPI0).

<img
  src={require('./img/movingBallCircuit.png').default}
  alt="Moving ball circuit" width="960"
/>

## Program overview

1. Display a ball (circle) at the center of the LCD.
2. Read the accelerations to know how the board moves.
3. If it moves to the left, the ball's coordinate on the x-axis will decrease. If it's right, the x-coordinate increases.
4. If it moves forward, the y-coordinate decreases, so the ball moves forward. And if it's downward, the y-coordinate increases.
5. Update the ball's position on the LCD.
6. Read the accelerations again and repeat the process.

## Example code

```swift showLineNumbers
// Import the SwiftIO library to set SPI communication and MadBoard to use pin id.
import SwiftIO
import MadBoard
// Import the driver for the screen.
import ST7789
// Import the accelerometer driver to sense the movement.
import LIS3DH

@main
public struct MovingBall {

    public static func main() {
        // Initialize the i2c interface and use it to intialize the sensor.
        let i2c = I2C(Id.I2C0)
        let accelerometer = LIS3DH(i2c)

        // Initialize the pins for the screen.
        let spi = SPI(Id.SPI0, speed: 30_000_000)
        let cs = DigitalOut(Id.D5)
        let dc = DigitalOut(Id.D4)
        let rst = DigitalOut(Id.D3)
        let bl = DigitalOut(Id.D2)

        // Initialize the screen with the pins above.
        let screen = ST7789(spi: spi, cs: cs, dc: dc, rst: rst, bl: bl, rotation: .angle90)

        typealias Point = (x: Int, y: Int)

        // The original coordinate of the ball. It's at the center.
        var x = screen.width / 2 - 1
        var y = screen.height / 2 - 1

        // Create a ball.
        let ballWidth = 15 
        let ballColor: UInt16 = 0xF800

        // The count of pixels the ball will move each time.
        let step = 5
        // The threshold for the accelerations to move the ball.
        let threshold: Float = 0.2

        // The anchor of the ball when you move it is at the upper left corner of this tile. 
        // But it's at the center when creating the ball.
        x -= ballWidth
        y -= ballWidth
        
        drawSquare(at: (x, y), width: ballWidth, color: ballColor)

        var lastPos: Point = (x, y)

        while true {
            // Read the new accelerations to know the movement.
            let accelerations = accelerometer.readXYZ()

            // Check if the acceleration on x-axis exceeds the threshold.
            if abs(accelerations.x) > threshold {
                // Get the direction of the ball's movement horizontally.
                // When you tilt your board left, the ball moves to the left, and vice versa.
                // Calculate the x coordinate of the ball.
                x += accelerations.x < 0 ? step : -step

                // Keep the ball within the screen.
                if x < 0 {
                    x = 0
                } else if x > screen.width - ballWidth - 1 {
                    x = screen.width - ballWidth - 1
                }
            }

            // Check if the acceleration on y-axis exceeds the threshold.
            if abs(accelerations.y) > threshold {
                // Get the direction of the ball's movement vertically.
                // When you tilt your board forward, the ball moves forward, and vice versa.
                // Calculate the y coordinate of the ball. 
                y += accelerations.y < 0 ? -step : step
                
                // Keep the ball within the screen.
                if y < 0 {
                    y = 0
                } else if y > screen.height - ballWidth - 1 {
                    y = screen.height - ballWidth - 1
                }
            }

            // Update the ball's position on the LCD.
            if x != lastPos.x || y != lastPos.y {
                update(width: ballWidth, height: ballWidth,
                    from: lastPos, bgColor: 0, to: (x, y), color: ballColor
                )
                lastPos = (x, y)
            }
            
            sleep(ms: 20)
        }

        func drawSquare(at point: Point, width: Int, color: UInt16) {
            for py in point.y..<(point.y + width) {
                for px in point.x..<(point.x + width) {
                    screen.writePixel(x: px, y: py, color: color)
                }
            }
        }

        func update(
            width: Int, height: Int,
            from lastPos: Point, bgColor: UInt16,
            to newPos: Point, color: UInt16)
        {
            var x0 = 0
            var x1 = 0
            if lastPos.x < newPos.x {
                x0 = lastPos.x
                x1 = newPos.x + width
            } else {
                x0 = newPos.x
                x1 = lastPos.x + width
            }

            var y0 = 0
            var y1 = 0
            if lastPos.y < newPos.y {
                y0 = lastPos.y
                y1 = newPos.y + height
            } else {
                y0 = newPos.y
                y1 = lastPos.y + height
            }

            var buffer = [UInt16](repeating: bgColor, count: (x1 - x0) * (y1 - y0))

            for py in newPos.y..<newPos.y + height {
                for px in newPos.x..<newPos.x + width {
                    buffer[(py - y0) * (x1 - x0) + (px - x0)] = color
                }
            }

            buffer.withUnsafeBytes {
                screen.writeBitmap(x: x0, y: y0, width: x1 - x0, height: y1 - y0, data: $0)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Update SwiftIO Micro name and board usages

docs/learn/projects/movingBall.md, after:

---
title: Moving ball
description: Move the ball on the screen by moving the board.
---

# Moving ball


In this project, you will move your board to move the ball displayed on the LCD. When you tilt your board to any direction, the ball moves with it. 

<img
  src={require('./img/movingBall.png').default}
  alt="Moving ball project" width="480"
/>

## Circuit

The modules for this project are the accelerometer (I2C0) and the LCD (SPI0).

<img
  src={require('./img/movingBallCircuit.png').default}
  alt="Moving ball circuit" width="960"
/>

## Project overview

1. Display a ball (circle) at the center of the LCD.
2. Read the accelerations to know how the board moves.
3. If it moves to the left, the ball's coordinate on the x-axis will decrease. If it's right, the x-coordinate increases.
4. If it moves forward, the y-coordinate decreases, so the ball moves forward. And if it's downward, the y-coordinate increases.
5. Update the ball's position on the LCD.
6. Read the accelerations again and repeat the process.

## Example code

```swift showLineNumbers
// Import the SwiftIO library to set SPI communication and MadBoard to use pin id.
import SwiftIO
import MadBoard
// Import the driver for the screen.
import ST7789
// Import the accelerometer driver to sense the movement.
import LIS3DH

@main
public struct MovingBall {

    public static func main() {
        // Initialize the i2c interface and use it to intialize the sensor.
        let i2c = I2C(Id.I2C0)
        let accelerometer = LIS3DH(i2c)

        // Initialize the pins for the screen.
        let spi = SPI(Id.SPI0, speed: 30_000_000)
        let cs = DigitalOut(Id.D5)
        let dc = DigitalOut(Id.D4)
        let rst = DigitalOut(Id.D3)
        let bl = DigitalOut(Id.D2)

        // Initialize the screen with the pins above.
        let screen = ST7789(spi: spi, cs: cs, dc: dc, rst: rst, bl: bl, rotation: .angle90)

        typealias Point = (x: Int, y: Int)

        // The original coordinate of the ball. It's at the center.
        var x = screen.width / 2 - 1
        var y = screen.height / 2 - 1

        // Create a ball.
        let ballWidth = 15 
        let ballColor: UInt16 = 0xF800

        // The count of pixels the ball will move each time.
        let step = 5
        // The threshold for the accelerations to move the ball.
        let threshold: Float = 0.2

        // The anchor of the ball when you move it is at the upper left corner of this tile. 
        // But it's at the center when creating the ball.
        x -= ballWidth
        y -= ballWidth
        
        drawSquare(at: (x, y), width: ballWidth, color: ballColor)

        var lastPos: Point = (x, y)

        while true {
            // Read the new accelerations to know the movement.
            let accelerations = accelerometer.readXYZ()

            // Check if the acceleration on x-axis exceeds the threshold.
            if abs(accelerations.x) > threshold {
                // Get the direction of the ball's movement horizontally.
                // When you tilt your board left, the ball moves to the left, and vice versa.
                // Calculate the x coordinate of the ball.
                x += accelerations.x < 0 ? step : -step

                // Keep the ball within the screen.
                if x < 0 {
                    x = 0
                } else if x > screen.width - ballWidth - 1 {
                    x = screen.width - ballWidth - 1
                }
            }

            // Check if the acceleration on y-axis exceeds the threshold.
            if abs(accelerations.y) > threshold {
                // Get the direction of the ball's movement vertically.
                // When you tilt your board forward, the ball moves forward, and vice versa.
                // Calculate the y coordinate of the ball. 
                y += accelerations.y < 0 ? -step : step
                
                // Keep the ball within the screen.
                if y < 0 {
                    y = 0
                } else if y > screen.height - ballWidth - 1 {
                    y = screen.height - ballWidth - 1
                }
            }

            // Update the ball's position on the LCD.
            if x != lastPos.x || y != lastPos.y {
                update(width: ballWidth, height: ballWidth,
                    from: lastPos, bgColor: 0, to: (x, y), color: ballColor
                )
                lastPos = (x, y)
            }
            
            sleep(ms: 20)
        }

        func drawSquare(at point: Point, width: Int, color: UInt16) {
            for py in point.y..<(point.y + width) {
                for px in point.x..<(point.x + width) {
                    screen.writePixel(x: px, y: py, color: color)
                }
            }
        }

        func update(
            width: Int, height: Int,
            from lastPos: Point, bgColor: UInt16,
            to newPos: Point, color: UInt16)
        {
            var x0 = 0
            var x1 = 0
            if lastPos.x < newPos.x {
                x0 = lastPos.x
                x1 = newPos.x + width
            } else {
                x0 = newPos.x
                x1 = lastPos.x + width
            }

            var y0 = 0
            var y1 = 0
            if lastPos.y < newPos.y {
                y0 = lastPos.y
                y1 = newPos.y + height
            } else {
                y0 = newPos.y
                y1 = lastPos.y + height
            }

            var buffer = [UInt16](repeating: bgColor, count: (x1 - x0) * (y1 - y0))

            for py in newPos.y..<newPos.y + height {
                for px in newPos.x..<newPos.x + width {
                    buffer[(py - y0) * (x1 - x0) + (px - x0)] = color
                }
            }

            buffer.withUnsafeBytes {
                screen.writeBitmap(x: x0, y: y0, width: x1 - x0, height: y1 - y0, data: $0)
            }
        }
    }
}
```
