docs/tutorials/general/getting-started/blink.mdx, before:

---
title: Blink
description: Learn how to blink an LED using your board and know about digital signals.
---

# Blink

Let's first come to an easy beginner project - blink the onboard LED. The LED will be on and off per second. It is always the first try when you begin to program the microcontrollers, like a hello world project. 

## What you need
- SwiftIO Feather (or SwiftIO board) 



:::note
The projects in the section **General** will use SwiftIO Feather as an example. You can also use the SwiftIO board instead. And you may need to change your code accordingly.
:::


## Circuit

For this project, you only need the board. There is a built-in RGB LED on the board as shown in the image above. You can control it using the methods in `DigitalOut` class.


<img
  src={require('./img/feather.png').default}
  alt="circuit diagram" width="480"
/>


Just plug the board into your computer with a USB cable to download your code.

## Example code
It's time for the code. Let's see how it works. You can find the example code at the bottom left corner of IDE: <img
  src={require('./img/example.png').default}
  alt="example" width="20"
/> / `GettingStarted` / `Blink`.

``` swift
// Turn on and off the onboard LED continuously.

// Import the library to enable the relevant classes and functions.
import SwiftIO

// Import the board library to use the Id of the specific board.
import MadBoard

// Initialize the onboard green LED with other parameters set to default.
let green = DigitalOut(Id.GREEN)

// Blink the LED over and over again.
while true {
    // Apply a high votage and turn off the LED.
    green.write(true)
    // Keep the light off for a minute.
    sleep(ms: 1000)
    // Apply a low voltage and turn on the LED.
    green.write(false)
    // Keep the light on for a minute.
    sleep(ms: 1000)
}
```


## Background

### Digital signal
The digital signal usually has two states, whose value is either **1** or **0**. In our cases, 1 represents 3.3V and 0 represents 0V. There are also other ways to express the same meaning: high or low, true or false. Now you will control the output voltage to turn on or off the LED.


<img
  src={require('./img/digitalSignal.png').default}
  alt="digital signal" width="480"
/>

### LED

The LED, or light-emitting diode, is one kind of diode. It has a positive leg (anode) and a negative leg (cathode). The long leg is positive, and the short leg is negative. The current could only flow in one direction, from positive to negative, so you should connect the positive to the current source. Only when you connect it in the right direction, the current could flow.


<img
  src={require('./img/LED.png').default}
  alt="LED" width="120"
/>

There are two ways to connect the LED:


<img
  src={require('./img/LEDcircuit.png').default}
  alt="LED circuit" width="960"
/>

1. Connect the LED to the digital pin and ground. If the pin outputs a **high** voltage, the current will flow from the pin to the ground, and thus the LED will be **on**. If it outputs a low voltage, the LED is off.

2. Connect the LED to the power and a digital pin. Since the current always flows from high to low voltage, if the pin outputs a **high** voltage, there is no voltage difference between the two ends of the LED, so the LED is **off**. Only when the pin outputs a low voltage, the current could flow from the power to the pin so the LED will be on. And the onboard LEDs work in this way.


You can find an RGB LED on your board. It has three colors: red, green and blue. As you download the code, it serves as a status indicator. Besides, you could also control its color and state by setting the output voltage.


<img
  src={require('./img/RGB.png').default}
  alt="RGB" width="240"
/>

Since there are three colors, you could light any of them: if you turn on red and blue, you could notice it appears magenta. If all three are on, the LED seems to be white.

While the onboard LED is connected to 3.3V internally. If you set it to high voltage, there will be no current. So it will be lighted when you apply low voltage.

## Code analysis

``` swift
import SwiftIO
import MadBoard
```

[SwiftIO](https://swiftioapi.madmachine.io/) consists of all the functionalities to control your board. All programs must first reference it to use everything in it, like classes and functions.

[SwiftIOFeather](https://github.com/madmachineio/MadBoards/blob/main/Sources/SwiftIOFeather/Id.swift) defines the corresponding pin id of the SwiftIO Feather board. The pins of different boards are different. So this library tells the IDE you are dealing with this board, not any other board. Then you could use the id in it. If you use the SwiftIO board, you need to import the `SwiftIOBoard` instead.

``` swift
let green = DigitalOut(Id.GREEN)
```

Before you set a specific pin, you need to initialize it. `let` is a keyword for Swift language to declare constants. You will often use it to assign a name to the pin for easier reference later. 

This statement is to create an instance for `DigitalOut` class and initialize that pin. So you need to indicate its id. All ids are in an enumeration, and the built-in RGB LEDs use the id `RED`, `GREEN`, or `BLUE`, thus the id of blue LED here is written as `Id.GREEN` using dot syntax. 

``` swift
while true {

}
```

In the dead loop `while true`, all code in the brackets will run over and over again unless you power off the code. 

``` swift
green.write(true)
```

The method `write(_:)` is used to set the pin to output high or low voltage. Its parameter is a boolean type: true or false: true corresponds to a high level (3.3V) and false corresponds to a low level (0V). And as mentioned above, you need to set a low voltage to turn on the LED.

``` swift
sleep(ms: 1000)
```

The function `sleep(ms:)` will stop the microcontroller's work for a specified period. It needs a period in milliseconds as its parameter. It is a global function in the library, so you can directly use it in your code.

In the loop, the pin outputs high voltage and then sleeps for 1 second. So in the first 1s, there is always a high voltage. Similarly, in the next 1s, the pin outputs low voltage.


## Reference

[DigitalOut](https://swiftioapi.madmachine.io/Classes/DigitalOut.html) - set whether the pin output a high or low voltage.

- `init(_:mode:value:)` - initialize the digital output pin. The first parameter needs the id. You can refer to the corresponding `Id` enumeration. The parameters mode and value already have their default value.

- `write(_:)` - set a specific pin to output high or low voltage. Its parameter is a boolean type. `true` corresponds to a high level, and `false` corresponds to a low level.

[`sleep(ms:)`](https://swiftioapi.madmachine.io/Functions.html#/s:7SwiftIO5sleep2msySi_tF) - suspend the microcontroller's work and thus make the current state last for a specified time, measured in milliseconds.

[SwiftIOFeather](https://github.com/madmachineio/MadBoards/blob/main/Sources/SwiftIOFeather/Id.swift) - find the corresponding pin id of SwiftIO Feather board.

Commit message:

Feature/lcd maddisplay (#62)
* Change tutorial structure and add content about MadDisplay

* Update links in other tutorials and modify explanations about MadDisplay

* Add explanation and project

* Modify explanations about shapes

* Modify shape and label explanations

* Add a project and modify bmp explanation

* Modify bmp explanation and add illustrations

* Modify expressions and add project image

* Correct links

docs/tutorials/general/getting-started/blink.mdx, after:

---
title: Blink
description: Learn how to blink an LED using your board and know about digital signals.
---

# Blink

Let's first come to an easy beginner project - blink the onboard LED. The LED will be on and off per second. It is always the first try when you begin to program the microcontrollers, like a hello world project. 

## What you need
- SwiftIO Feather (or SwiftIO board) 



:::note
The projects in the section **General** will use SwiftIO Feather as an example. You can also use the SwiftIO board instead. And you may need to change your code accordingly.
:::


## Circuit

For this project, you only need the board. There is a built-in RGB LED on the board as shown in the image above. You can control it using the methods in `DigitalOut` class.


<img
  src={require('./img/feather.png').default}
  alt="circuit diagram" width="480"
/>


Just plug the board into your computer with a USB cable to download your code.

## Example code
It's time for the code. Let's see how it works. You can find the example code at the bottom left corner of IDE: <img
  src={require('./img/example.png').default}
  alt="example" width="20"
/> / `GettingStarted` / `Blink`.

``` swift
// Turn on and off the onboard LED continuously.

// Import the library to enable the relevant classes and functions.
import SwiftIO

// Import the board library to use the Id of the specific board.
import MadBoard

// Initialize the onboard green LED with other parameters set to default.
let green = DigitalOut(Id.GREEN)

// Blink the LED over and over again.
while true {
    // Apply a high votage and turn off the LED.
    green.write(true)
    // Keep the light off for a minute.
    sleep(ms: 1000)
    // Apply a low voltage and turn on the LED.
    green.write(false)
    // Keep the light on for a minute.
    sleep(ms: 1000)
}
```


## Background

### Digital signal
The digital signal usually has two states, whose value is either **1** or **0**. In our cases, 1 represents 3.3V and 0 represents 0V. There are also other ways to express the same meaning: high or low, true or false. Now you will control the output voltage to turn on or off the LED.


<img
  src={require('./img/digitalSignal.png').default}
  alt="digital signal" width="480"
/>

### LED

The LED, or light-emitting diode, is one kind of diode. It has a positive leg (anode) and a negative leg (cathode). The long leg is positive, and the short leg is negative. The current could only flow in one direction, from positive to negative, so you should connect the positive to the current source. Only when you connect it in the right direction, the current could flow.


<img
  src={require('./img/LED.png').default}
  alt="LED" width="120"
/>

There are two ways to connect the LED:


<img
  src={require('./img/LEDcircuit.png').default}
  alt="LED circuit" width="960"
/>

1. Connect the LED to the digital pin and ground. If the pin outputs a **high** voltage, the current will flow from the pin to the ground, and thus the LED will be **on**. If it outputs a low voltage, the LED is off.

2. Connect the LED to the power and a digital pin. Since the current always flows from high to low voltage, if the pin outputs a **high** voltage, there is no voltage difference between the two ends of the LED, so the LED is **off**. Only when the pin outputs a low voltage, the current could flow from the power to the pin so the LED will be on. And the onboard LEDs work in this way.


You can find an RGB LED on your board. It has three colors: red, green and blue. As you download the code, it serves as a status indicator. Besides, you could also control its color and state by setting the output voltage.


<img
  src={require('./img/RGB.png').default}
  alt="RGB" width="240"
/>

Since there are three colors, you could light any of them: if you turn on red and blue, you could notice it appears magenta. If all three are on, the LED seems to be white.

While the onboard LED is connected to 3.3V internally. If you set it to high voltage, there will be no current. So it will be lighted when you apply low voltage.

## Code analysis

``` swift
import SwiftIO
import MadBoard
```

[SwiftIO](https://swiftioapi.madmachine.io/) consists of all the functionalities to control your board. All programs must first reference it to use everything in it, like classes and functions.

[MadBoard](https://github.com/madmachineio/MadBoards) defines the corresponding pin id of the different boards. You will not tell a specific board here since you have chosen a specified board for your project when creating it.

``` swift
let green = DigitalOut(Id.GREEN)
```

Before you set a specific pin, you need to initialize it. `let` is a keyword for Swift language to declare constants. You will often use it to assign a name to the pin for easier reference later. 

This statement is to create an instance for `DigitalOut` class and initialize that pin. So you need to indicate its id. All ids are in an enumeration, and the built-in RGB LEDs use the id `RED`, `GREEN`, or `BLUE`, thus the id of blue LED here is written as `Id.GREEN` using dot syntax. 

``` swift
while true {

}
```

In the dead loop `while true`, all code in the brackets will run over and over again unless you power off the code. 

``` swift
green.write(true)
```

The method `write(_:)` is used to set the pin to output high or low voltage. Its parameter is a boolean type: true or false: true corresponds to a high level (3.3V) and false corresponds to a low level (0V). And as mentioned above, you need to set a low voltage to turn on the LED.

``` swift
sleep(ms: 1000)
```

The function `sleep(ms:)` will stop the microcontroller's work for a specified period. It needs a period in milliseconds as its parameter. It is a global function in the library, so you can directly use it in your code.

In the loop, the pin outputs high voltage and then sleeps for 1 second. So in the first 1s, there is always a high voltage. Similarly, in the next 1s, the pin outputs low voltage.


## Reference

[DigitalOut](https://swiftioapi.madmachine.io/Classes/DigitalOut.html) - set whether the pin output a high or low voltage.

- `init(_:mode:value:)` - initialize the digital output pin. The first parameter needs the id. You can refer to the corresponding `Id` enumeration. The parameters mode and value already have their default value.

- `write(_:)` - set a specific pin to output high or low voltage. Its parameter is a boolean type. `true` corresponds to a high level, and `false` corresponds to a low level.

[`sleep(ms:)`](https://swiftioapi.madmachine.io/Functions.html#/s:7SwiftIO5sleep2msySi_tF) - suspend the microcontroller's work and thus make the current state last for a specified time, measured in milliseconds.

[MadBoard](https://github.com/madmachineio/MadBoards) - find the corresponding pin id of your board.
