docs/overview/advanced/serial-debug.mdx, before:

---
title: Serial and debugging
description: Learn to use the serial tool and debug your project.
---

# Serial and debugging

You must have met similar situations: your code is downloaded to the board but doesn't work as you have predicted; even if you press the reset button, the board is still unresponsive. You are unable to see what is happening inside your device, so at that time, you need to debug your code.

There are two common ways. One is to step through it, which is not supported yet. So the best way now is to print the information out to find the problem.

Let's see how you use the **Serial Monitor** to view the output. It is installed when you install the [MadMachine for VS code](../getting-started/software-prerequisite). And if you want another serial software, we find [Serial Studio](https://serial-studio.github.io/) works well.


## Step 1: Add `print()` in your code

Add the function `print()` to print all values out in case of any unexpected mistakes. There are so many possibilities. Only in this way do you know which step goes wrong.

After finishing the code, download the code to your board.

## Step 2: Connect the board to your computer

Now connect the board to your computer through the serial port. If you are not sure which is the correct one, check the [introduction of your board here](../hardware/overview).

It's for serial communication between your board and computer. The microcontrollers use serial communication, but your computer hardly uses it, so a serial to USB converter is added to the board to allow data transmission. 


## Step 3: Connect the serial port

1. If the terminal window doesn't show in VS code, open it by clicking **Terminal** / **New Terminal**.

<img
  src={require('./img/openTerminal.png').default}
  alt="Open a new terminal" width="960"
/>

2. Click **SERIAL MONITOR** tab. You will see all settings for the serial port.

<img
  src={require('./img/clickSerialMonitor.png').default}
  alt="Open serial monitor window" width="960"
/>

<img
  src={require('./img/serialMonitor.png').default}
  alt="Serial monitor window" width="960"
/>

3. Click on the **Port** dropdown to choose the port of your board.

<img
  src={require('./img/selectPort.png').default}
  alt="Select port" width="960"
/>

4. Click on the **Baud rate** dropdown and select **115200**.

<img
  src={require('./img/baudrate.png').default}
  alt="Select baud rate" width="960"
/>

5. For other detailed settings, click **Additional Settings** button. Then click the button again to hide the settings.

<img
  src={require('./img/additionalSettings.png').default}
  alt="Open Additional Settings" width="960"
/>

6. Click the button **Start Monitoring**. The values will then be printed on the window.

<img
  src={require('./img/startMonitoring.png').default}
  alt="Click Start Monitoring" width="960"
/>

<img
  src={require('./img/print.png').default}
  alt="Values printed on the window" width="960"
/>


## Step 4: View values

Press the reset button on your board to restart the code. When the code runs again, you can check the values on the output window. According to the printed values, you can infer which line of code is not executed or has an error by mistake.

Commit message:

Update serial monitor permission in Linux

docs/overview/advanced/serial-debug.mdx, after:

---
title: Serial and debugging
description: Learn to use the serial tool and debug your project.
---

# Serial and debugging

You must have met similar situations: your code is downloaded to the board but doesn't work as you have predicted; even if you press the reset button, the board is still unresponsive. You are unable to see what is happening inside your device, so at that time, you need to debug your code.

There are two common ways. One is to step through it, which is not supported yet. So the best way now is to print the information out to find the problem.

Let's see how you use the **Serial Monitor** to view the output. It is installed when you install the [MadMachine for VS code](../getting-started/software-prerequisite). And if you want another serial software, we find [Serial Studio](https://serial-studio.github.io/) works well.


## Step 1: Add `print()` in your code

Add the function `print()` to print all values out in case of any unexpected mistakes. There are so many possibilities. Only in this way do you know which step goes wrong.

After finishing the code, download the code to your board.

## Step 2: Connect the board to your computer

Now connect the board to your computer through the serial port. If you are not sure which is the correct one, check the [introduction of your board here](../hardware/overview).

It's for serial communication between your board and computer. The microcontrollers use serial communication, but your computer hardly uses it, so a serial to USB converter is added to the board to allow data transmission. 


## Step 3: Connect the serial port

1. If the terminal window doesn't show in VS code, open it by clicking **Terminal** / **New Terminal**.

<img
  src={require('./img/openTerminal.png').default}
  alt="Open a new terminal" width="960"
/>

2. Click **SERIAL MONITOR** tab. You will see all settings for the serial port.

<img
  src={require('./img/clickSerialMonitor.png').default}
  alt="Open serial monitor window" width="960"
/>

<img
  src={require('./img/serialMonitor.png').default}
  alt="Serial monitor window" width="960"
/>

3. Click on the **Port** dropdown to choose the port of your board.

<img
  src={require('./img/selectPort.png').default}
  alt="Select port" width="960"
/>

4. Click on the **Baud rate** dropdown and select **115200**.

<img
  src={require('./img/baudrate.png').default}
  alt="Select baud rate" width="960"
/>

5. For other detailed settings, click **Additional Settings** button. Then click the button again to hide the settings.

<img
  src={require('./img/additionalSettings.png').default}
  alt="Open Additional Settings" width="960"
/>

6. Click the button **Start Monitoring**. The values will then be printed on the window.

<img
  src={require('./img/startMonitoring.png').default}
  alt="Click Start Monitoring" width="960"
/>

<img
  src={require('./img/print.png').default}
  alt="Values printed on the window" width="960"
/>

<details>
    <summary> Failed to open the serial port on Linux.</summary>

That may be due to your user not being a member of the dialout group.

1. Print the groups for your user:

```bash
group username
```

2. If dialout isn't in it, add the user to the group with sudo permission:

```bash
sudo adduser username dialout
```

Now the serial monitor should be opened successfully.

</details>



## Step 4: View values

Press the reset button on your board to restart the code. When the code runs again, you can check the values on the output window. According to the printed values, you can infer which line of code is not executed or has an error by mistake.
