docs/overview/getting-started/download.mdx, before:

---
title: 4. Downloading your project
description: Download Swift code to your board.
---

# 4. Download your project

Well, it's time to download the code to your board.

1. Press the **Download button**. Once pressed, your board will appear as a USB Drive on your computer. There are two buttons on your board. The one labeled "**Download**" or "**DL**" is the correct one.

<img
  src={require('./img/downloadButton.png').default}
  alt="Press download button" width="960"
/>

:::note
Bad quality USB cable or some third-party USB hub may cause connection failure. If the board still fails to connect to your computer, you can refer to [FAQ](../faq.mdx#usb-driver-cant-be-mounted).
:::


2. The onboard RGB LEDs will show the current status of the USB connection. Wait for several seconds until the LED turns to **steady green**.

| LED State | RED | GREEN | BLUE |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| On | USB communication failed | USB connection established | - |
| Slow flashing | Fail to verify bin file | - | - |
| Fast flashing | Fail to open bin file | Detecting USB connection | Detecting SD card |

<img
  src={require('./img/greenLED.png').default}
  alt="Green LED is on" width="960"
/>



3. Click **MadMachine** / **Build** to build the project. It will generate a file that could run on your board.

<img
  src={require('./img/build.png').default}
  alt="Build the code" width="960"
/>

4. Click **Download** on the MadMachine extension to download the file to your board. 

<img
  src={require('./img/download.png').default}
  alt="Download the code" width="960"
/>

If it says it cannot find the board, you could wait a little longer. Maybe your board is building the connection with your computer. And make sure you have followed step 3 above.


After the code is downloaded to your board successfully, the USB drive will be removed automatically.

Congratulations! The onboard green LED begins to blink per second✨.

Commit message:

Update code format in all examples

docs/overview/getting-started/download.mdx, after:

---
title: 4. Downloading your project
description: Download Swift code to your board.
---

# 4. Download your project

Well, it's time to download the code to your board.

1. Press the **Download button**. Once pressed, your board will appear as a USB Drive on your computer. There are two buttons on your board. The one labeled "**Download**" or "**DL**" is the correct one.

<img
  src={require('./img/downloadButton.png').default}
  alt="Press download button" width="960"
/>

:::note
Bad quality USB cable or some third-party USB hub may cause connection failure. If the board still fails to connect to your computer, you can refer to [FAQ](../faq.mdx#usb-driver-cant-be-mounted).
:::


2. The onboard RGB LEDs will show the current status of the USB connection. Wait for several seconds until the LED turns to **steady green**.

| LED State | RED | GREEN | BLUE |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| On | USB communication failed | USB connection established | - |
| Slow flashing | Fail to verify bin file | - | - |
| Fast flashing | Fail to open bin file | Detecting USB connection | Detecting SD card |

<img
  src={require('./img/greenLED.png').default}
  alt="Green LED is on" width="960"
/>



3. Click **MadMachine** / **Build** to build the project. It will generate a file that could run on your board. 

<img
  src={require('./img/build.png').default}
  alt="Build the code" width="960"
/>

:::info
During this process, mm-sdk will fetch all the necessary dependencies from GitHub, as shown in the first several lines of the message. So check the internet connection if it fails.
:::

4. Once the building process is finished, you will see the message **Done!** in the terminal.

<img
  src={require('./img/buildDone.png').default}
  alt="Finish building" width="960"
/>

5. Click **Download** button to download the file to your board. If it's successfully downloaded, you'll see the message **Done!**.

<img
  src={require('./img/download.png').default}
  alt="Download the code" width="960"
/>

Congratulations! The onboard blue LED begins to blink per second✨.
