docs/learn/preparation/first-try.mdx, before:

---
title: First try
description: Install the software and run your hello world project.
---

# First try


Before diving into the nitty-gritty details, it's always a good idea to get hands-on and try your first project. So, let's kick off your journey by blinking an LED!

## Step 1: Set up software 

At first, you will get started with the software setup process.


1. **Download the latest [mm-sdk](https://github.com/madmachineio/mm-sdk/releases)**. It is used to build and download your project.

2. **Open the Visual Studio Code**. I believe most of you guys have installed it. We've created an extension for it. It is really handy and easy to use.

3. **Install the extension** as shown below:
    1. click the Extensions button on the left bar.
    2. enter the extension name MadMachine in the search box.
    3. click the Install button.

<img
  src={require('./img/install.png').default}
  alt="Install the extension" width="960"
/>


4. **Click ⚙️ / Extension Settings** to open the settings.

<img
  src={require('./img/settings.png').default}
  alt="Open the settings window" width="960"
/>


5. **Indicate the mm-sdk location** in the box that matches your operating system. So far, only Mac and Linux are supported. 

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs
  defaultValue="Mac"
  values={[
    { label: 'Mac', value: 'Mac', },
    { label: 'Linux', value: 'Linux', },
  ]
}>

<TabItem value="Mac">

<img
  src={require('./img/sdkPathMac.png').default}
  alt="Indicate the path of sdk on Mac." width="960"
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Linux">

<img
  src={require('./img/sdkPathLinux.png').default}
  alt="Indicate the path of sdk on Linux." width="960"
/>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
If you change the location of the SDK later, don't forget to update its path here. 
:::


OK, the software gets prepared👏.

##  Step 2: Create a project

Now, you will start your first project.

1. Click the **Explorer** button on the left bar. Then click the extension **MadMachine** on the bottom to show three buttons. Click **New Project**.

<img
  src={require('./img/create.png').default}
  alt="Create a new project" width="960"
/>

2. Choose the project as an **executable**. Your project will run on the board, so you need an executable. And the projects in the following sections are all executables.

<img
  src={require('./img/projectType.png').default}
  alt="Choose project type" width="960"
/>


3. Choose the board for this project - **SwiftIOFeather**.

<img
  src={require('./img/boardType.png').default}
  alt="Chosse board type" width="960"
/>

4. **Name** the project. You could choose any descriptive name you like for the project. Then press the **Enter** key.

<img
  src={require('./img/projectName.png').default}
  alt="Set project name" width="960"
/>

5. Choose a **location** to store the project and press **Open**.

<img
  src={require('./img/location.png').default}
  alt="Set project location and name" width="960"
/>

Well, the project is created and will open in a new window.

##  Step 3: Write code

Then you will need to edit the code for the project. 

1. Click on the **Blink** / **Sources** / **Blink** / **Blink.swift** to open the file. Your program will start from here marked with `@main`. So you will always edit this file for all your projects.

2. Copy the code below into the file. In the [next section](../peripherals/led), you will learn how everything works.

```swift title="Blink.swift" showLineNumbers
import SwiftIO
import MadBoard

@main
public struct Blink {
    public static func main() {
        let led = DigitalOut(Id.BLUE)

        while true {
            led.write(true)
            sleep(ms: 1000)

            led.write(false)
            sleep(ms: 1000)
        }
    }
}
```

<img
  src={require('./img/code.png').default}
  alt="Code" width="960"
/>

##  Step 4: Connect board to computer

Now you come to the last step - download your project to the board.

1. Insert the SD card into the SwiftIO Feather board.

<img
  src={require('./img/insertSDCard.png').default}
  alt="Insert SD card to board" width="480"
/>

2. **Connect** your SwiftIO Feather board to your computer using a USB cable.

<img
  src={require('./img/connect.png').default}
  alt="Connect your board to computer" width="960"
/>


:::info
If you are using our **prototype board** that has a LiPo battery connector, there is one more shield board in between. Make sure to connect the USB port on the shield to your computer for code downloading instead of the other two ports.
:::

##  Step 5: Download code to the board

1. Click the **Build** button to build your project. Wait until the message **Done** appears on the window.

<img
  src={require('./img/build.png').default}
  alt="click build button" width="960"
/>

2. Click the **Download** button. It will take a few seconds.

<img
  src={require('./img/download.png').default}
  alt="click download button" width="960"
/>

After it's done, the onboard blue LED starts to blink💡.

Commit message:

Fix/update playground docs (#90)
* Update module circuit and kit images in projects

* Update docs structure

* Update SwiftIO Micro name and board usages

* Update project names and add code links

* Correct image path

docs/learn/preparation/first-try.mdx, after:

---
title: First try
description: Install the software and run your hello world project.
---

# First try


Before diving into the nitty-gritty details, it's always a good idea to get hands-on and try your first project. So, let's kick off your journey by blinking an LED!

## Step 1: Set up software 

At first, you will get started with the software setup process.


1. **Download the latest [mm-sdk](https://github.com/madmachineio/mm-sdk/releases)**. It is used to build and download your project.
2. **Open the Visual Studio Code**. I believe most of you guys have installed it. We've created an extension for it. It is really handy and easy to use.
3. **Install the extension** as shown below:
    1. click the Extensions button on the left bar.
    2. enter the extension name MadMachine in the search box.
    3. click the Install button.

<img
  src={require('./img/install.png').default}
  alt="Install the extension" width="960"
/>


4. **Click ⚙️ / Extension Settings** to open the settings.

<img
  src={require('./img/settings.png').default}
  alt="Open the settings window" width="960"
/>


5. **Indicate the mm-sdk location** in the box that matches your operating system. So far, only Mac and Linux are supported. 

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs
  defaultValue="Mac"
  values={[
    { label: 'Mac', value: 'Mac', },
    { label: 'Linux', value: 'Linux', },
  ]
}>

<TabItem value="Mac">

<img
  src={require('./img/sdkPathMac.png').default}
  alt="Indicate the path of sdk on Mac." width="960"
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Linux">

<img
  src={require('./img/sdkPathLinux.png').default}
  alt="Indicate the path of sdk on Linux." width="960"
/>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
If you change the location of the SDK later, don't forget to update its path here. 
:::


OK, the software gets prepared👏.

##  Step 2: Create a project

Now, you will start your first project.

1. Click the **Explorer** button on the left bar. Then click the extension **MadMachine** on the bottom to show three buttons. Click **New Project**.

<img
  src={require('./img/create.png').default}
  alt="Create a new project" width="960"
/>

2. Choose the project as an **executable**. Your project will run on the board, so you need an executable. And the projects in the following sections are all executables.

<img
  src={require('./img/projectType.png').default}
  alt="Choose project type" width="960"
/>


3. Choose the board for this project - **SwiftIOMicro**.

<img
  src={require('./img/boardType.png').default}
  alt="Chosse board type" width="960"
/>

4. **Name** the project. You could choose any descriptive name you like for the project. Then press the **Enter** key.

<img
  src={require('./img/projectName.png').default}
  alt="Set project name" width="960"
/>

5. Choose a **location** to store the project and press **Open**.

<img
  src={require('./img/location.png').default}
  alt="Set project location and name" width="960"
/>

Well, the project is created and will open in a new window.

##  Step 3: Write code

Then you will need to edit the code for the project. 

1. Click on the **Blink** / **Sources** / **Blink** / **Blink.swift** to open the file. Your program will start from here marked with `@main`. So you will always edit this file for all your projects.
2. **Copy the code below** into the file. In the [next section](../peripherals/led), you will learn how everything works.

```swift title="Blink.swift" showLineNumbers
import SwiftIO
import MadBoard

@main
public struct Blink {
    public static func main() {
        let led = DigitalOut(Id.BLUE)

        while true {
            led.write(true)
            sleep(ms: 1000)

            led.write(false)
            sleep(ms: 1000)
        }
    }
}
```

<img
  src={require('./img/code.png').default}
  alt="Code" width="960"
/>

##  Step 4: Connect board to computer

**Connect** your SwiftIO Micro to your computer using a USB cable.

<img
  src={require('./img/connect.png').default}
  alt="Connect your board to computer" width="960"
/>


:::info
The SwiftIO Micro supports [XIP](../../../blog/A%20brief%20introduction%20about%20Swift%20in%20embedded%20development#hardware-difference-mmu) now and doesn't require an SD card. 
:::

##  Step 5: Download code to the board

1. Click the **Build** button to build your project. Wait until the message **Done** appears on the window.

<img
  src={require('./img/build.png').default}
  alt="click build button" width="960"
/>

2. Click the **Download** button. It will take a few seconds.

<img
  src={require('./img/download.png').default}
  alt="click download button" width="960"
/>

After it's done, the onboard blue LED starts to blink💡.
